# How can the video game 'Escape From Tarkov' be improved through the use of an API?
Escape from tarkov is a realistic first person shooter game. The focus on the game is to go into 'raids' and make it out alive. Players will do this with either no gear/loot in order to go in and get what they can and get out or some players will go in fully geared with their best stuff in hopes they will kill another fully geared player and gain their loot. Players only go into raids fully geared at their own risk as if they die or if they don’t make it out of the raids before the time runs out - they will lose everything they had on their character.

In tarkov, the best way to make money is through selling the loot you gain through these raids. Each individual item from a raid can be sold to traders who will all offer different prices for that item. There are 7 traders in total. There is also an alternate way of selling your items - through the 'flea market' which is essentially the games own version of a black market. This means that the player will have 8 alternate places to sell items.

Through the use of an API, the first improvement I would make would be tool to allow the player to see the best place to sell their item which would give them the most amount of money for that item. The API would have a simple search box where the user would input the items name and the API would return the best trader to sell that item too. The API would also look up the price of the item within the 'flea market' to see if players are buying that item for more on there.

Another addition that could be implemented through the use of an API could be a form of stock market which shows the demand, increase and decrease of items within the 'flea market'. this would allow users and players to see what is trending and what has increased in price so that they could look for those specific items during raids or even choose the most profitable items from other player’s inventories. The use of an API like this would mean that knowledgeable users as well as novice users would be able to make the most money out of their items.
